# Source
These notes came from [this documentation](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/fundamentals?hl=en#Components)
# Application Fundamentals
- .apk = An android package. Contain contents of the app that are required at runtime
- .aap = Android App Package. Contains Android app project and additional metadata.

- Each app lives in it's own "sandbox"
- Each app is assigned a Unique linux user ID by the System. This is known only by the System.
- Each process has its own VM

- *Principles of least privilege*
- Can arrange for two apps to share the same Linux UID.
    - Therefore allows them to access each other's files.
    - Can also be ran on the same Linux process and share the same VM.
    - Must be signed with the same certificate.

# App Components
- Four types of app components:
    1. Activities
    2. Services
    3. Broadcast Receivers
    4. Content providers

- Activities component:
  - Entry point for *interacting with the user*
    - E.g.
      - An email app might have an activity that list new emails
      - Another activity to compose an emial.
  - Each activity is *independent* of each other.
  - Another app can start an activity if the app allows it.
  - Activity facilitates the following *key* interaction between system and app
    - Keeps track of what is currently on the screen. To ensure the system keeps the process running hosting that activity.
    - Previously used processed contains thing user may return to (stopped activities) and helps priorities those processes.
    - Helps app handle its rocess being killed so the user can return to activities with their previous state
    - Provide a way for apps to implement user flows between each other. (E.g. share)
  - You implement an *activity* as a subclass of the `Activity` class.
- Services component:
  - General-purpose entry point.
  - Keeps app running in the background for multiple reasons.
  - Component that runs in the background to perform long-running operations or perform work for remote processes.
  - E.g. a service may play music in the backgroudn
  - Another component can start a service.
  - There are two types of services
    - Started services
      - Tells system to keep them running until the work is completed.
      - Two types of started services
        - Something a user is directly aware of. And therefore needs to have a notification to tell the user about it.
          - Therefore the system should priorities keeping this process running. Otherwise the user will be unhappy
          - E.g music playback
        - Something a user is not aware of.
          - So system may allow it to be killed and restart it later.
    - Bound services
      - Some other app/system said it wants to make use of the service.
      - Basically the service providing an api to another process.
      - e.g. if process a is bound to a service in process B, it needs to keep process B running.
  - Service implemented as a subclass of the Service class.
- Broadcast Receivers
  - Another entry to the app
  - Allows system to deliver events to app outside of the regular user flow.
  - Allows app to respond to system-wide broadcast announcements.
  - E.g. an alarm app
    - Deliver the alarm to the BroadcastReceiver of the app, so the app does not need to remain running until the alarm goes off.
  - Many broadcasts originate from the system.
  - Broadcasts don't display a user interface. But they may create a status bar notification.
  - It's a *gateway* to other components
  - Implemented as a subclass of BroadcastReceiver and each broadcast is delivered as an Intent object.
- Content providers
  - Manages shared set of app data that you can store in the file system. 
  - In any persistent storage location that your app can access.
  - To the system: it is an entry point into an app for publishing named data items. Identified by a URI scheme.
  - Assigning a URI doesn't require the app to remain running. URIs can persist after the apps have exited. System only needs to ensure the owning app is still running when it has to retrieve the app's data from the corresponding URI.
  - Provides a fine-grained security model.
    - E.g. An app can place the URI for an image on the clipboard, but leave the content provider locked up so other apps cannot acccess it.
    - The system can tempoarily allow other app to access it when they request it via a *tempoary URI permission grant* so it is allowed to access the data only behind that URI.
  - A content provider is implemented as a subclass of ContentProvider.
  - Must implement a stadard set of APIs that enable other apps to perform transactions.

- Any app can start another app's component.
- When the system starts a component, the system also starts the app's process if it's not already running.
- Android apps have no main() function. It has multiple entry points.

# Activating components.
